# PROJECT TITLE - Password Based Door Lock Security System

* Password Based Door Lock System using 8051 Microcontroller is a simple project where a secure password will act as a door unlocking system. Traditional lock systems using mechanical lock and key mechanism are being replaced by new advanced techniques of locking system. These techniques are an integration of mechanical and electronic devices and are highly intelligent. One of the prominent features of these innovative lock systems is their simplicity and high efficiency.


* Such an automatic lock system consists of electronic control assembly, which controls the output load through a password. This output load can be a motor or a lamp or any other mechanical/electrical load.

* Here, we developed an electronic code lock system using 8051 microcontroller (a Password based Door Lock System using 8051 Microcontroller), which provides control to the actuating the load. It is a simple embedded system with input from the keyboard and the output being actuated accordingly.

* This system demonstrates a Password based Door Lock System using 8051 Microcontroller, wherein once the correct code or password is entered, the door is opened and the concerned person is allowed access to the secured area. Again, if another person arrives, it will ask to enter the password. If the password is wrong, then door would remain closed, denying access to the person.


* Many times, we forgot to carry the key of our home. Or sometimes we come out of our home and door latch closes by mistake. In these cases, it is really difficult to get inside the house. This project is designed to solve this purpose. Main concept behind this project is of a door-latch opening using a password entered through keypad. As well as turning on the Buzzer when password is entered wrong. Today people are facing more problems about security in all over world, nowadays security is the most essential issue everywhere in the world so security of everything gains higher and higher importance in recent years. The main component in the circuit is 8051 microcontrollers. Here, 4*4 keypad is used to enter the password. The entered password is compared with the predefined password. If it is correct password, the system opens the door by rotating door motor and displays the status of door on LCD. If the password is wrong then door remains closed and displays ―password is wrong on LCD. It can be used at organizations to ensure authorized access to highly secured places. With a slight modification by replacing the motor driver with a relay driver, this circuit can be used to control the switching of loads through code. This circuit can be also modified by using EEPROM chip interfaced to the microcontroller and store the entered password in the chip. Such an automatic lock system consists of electronic control assembly which controls the output load through a password. This output load can be a motor or a lamp or any other mechanical/electrical load.
